[Music]
hey adventure seekers looking for a
thrilling new activity to pump up that
heart rate I've got just the thing
plan a trip to climb Mount Everest but
before you pick up your bag you should
learn about exactly what it takes to
plan a trip to one of the most dangerous
climbs in the world standing at 29,029
feet high this rocky summit poses plenty
of dangers and challenges that can work
against you if you are not prepared
first off it's important to understand a
little bit about the great Mount Everest
if you've ever seen any of the
blockbuster films about this epic
climbing adventure you know hiking up
Everest is no joke
people who climb Mount Everest typically
plan their climb during what they call
the summit window during mid May and
sometimes November temperatures warm up
a bit and the winds are somewhat calmer
during these times while it may sound
logical to climb during warmer months
like July and August it's actually a
pretty bad idea since this time of year
is monsoon season and you'd be stuck in
heavy rains
aside from climbing during the right
seasons there are plenty of other
precautions you should take when
attempting such a challenging climb
unlike hiking on your average hillside
or shoreline the height of this mountain
is hard on your lungs Mount Everest
summit is higher than any other mountain
in the world so in terms of its height
above sea level it stands taller than
anything else on our planet whoa is
right and at this height oxygen levels
decrease pretty drastically it's almost
as if the air is getting thinner so to
speak while climbing Mount Everest
you'll notice yourself feeling more
short of breath the higher up you get
sure you're exerting a lot of energy
walking and climbing
but this shortness of breath is also due
to the lower oxygen level at an
elevation of 29,029 feet each breath you
take only has one third of the amount of
oxygen as it would normally have at sea
level so clearly there are a lot of
risks when it comes to climbing Mount
Everest which is why climbing it alone
is probably the worst idea ever it's
best to plan the climb with a group
there are plenty of excursions you can
pick from and
and they range in price but once you
book your ticket how can you possibly
prepare for this climb of a lifetime
lucky for you I've created the perfect
to-do list for planning an epic trip to
the great Mount Everest
first off you gotta know what to pack
here's a quick list to check off as
you're stuffing your luggage with the
essentials sunscreen since the Sun is
super bright up in the mountains
sunglasses also to protect from the
brightness of the Sun it's a good idea
to bring snow glasses since the light
reflecting on the white snow can be
incredibly bright a warm jacket filled
with down no matter what season you go
in it can be pretty chilly at nighttime
moisturizer this applies to both your
skin and your lips your skin is likely
to become dried out and chats since the
mountains climate is dry and chilly food
it's important to bring foods you'll
want to eat on your excursion don't
bring food you've never had before or
that you might not like or might not
fill you up you'll need all the energy
you can get this isn't the time for a
diet some helpful tips bring things with
garlic in them since this ingredient is
actually helpful when it comes to
adapting to high altitudes thanks to its
ability to make your blood thinner you
can also pack peanut butter and hard
salami but I wouldn't eat those together
obviously cup of soups candy bars and
canned tuna are also good especially as
you get higher and higher in your clime
foods that can be prepared instantly are
your best bet lower base camps will have
some foods for sale that is prepared
there but the higher you go up the less
ritzy it gets so you'll need to bring
your own food okay so you've packed all
your tasty snacks now you need to
actually get to the mountain Mount
Everest is located in Tibet on the
border of China and Nepal you can fly
into Tibet and hang out in la show or
segata to explore a couple of days
before you actually get to base camp
it's best to wait a day or two in Tibet
before climbing the mountain just to be
sure you won't suffer from altitude
sickness and on top of that this time
will give you a chance to get your
aliens travel permit no this isn't the
ticket to another planet if you're
entering onto Mount Everest from it
Chinese side the aliens travel permit is
necessary for both climbing Mount
Everest and just visiting its base camp
you'll also need something called the
frontier pass you can attain these once
you're actually in Tibet however if you
choose to walk on to Everest base camp
on the Nepal side of the mountain which
is the most popular side to enter on you
don't need to follow the more strict
travelling rules that china sets to get
to the mountain before you make your
visit it's best to research all the
permits needed for both sides so you
won't have to cut your trip short okay
it's finally time to climb because this
is such an extensive and dangerous climb
it's best for your group to be led by
someone who knows what they're doing
there are lots of organizations that do
group tracks and they typically visit
the same various paths up the mountain
the groups will often hire what they
call Sherpas who are kind of like the
roadies of your mountain climb they
basically set up a camp and carry the
various amenities that you'll need let's
say you choose to enter Mount Everest
from the south on the Nepal side one of
the first camps you hit is at about
nineteen thousand five hundred feet
you'll probably spend one night here as
your body becomes acclimated to the new
climate and altitude next you'll hit
base camp - and about 2,000 feet higher
after walking through what they call the
valley of silence which is fairly flat
in terrain even at 21,000 feet your body
will still feel the effects of the
higher altitude life after staying here
a couple of days you should start to get
used to it as you go higher to other
camps you'll see that Sherpas have
already set up camp for you it's pretty
incredible at this height on the
mountain Sherpas can no longer rely on
animals to carry some of the load they
do it with their bare heads pretty
impressive right when it comes time to
approach the mountain summit the weather
becomes incredibly important to have the
safest most successful climb to the
summit you'll need five days of clear
skies and minimal winds
that's why traveling between the months
of May and June are usually best because
this can be such a small window of time
a mass amount of climbers can be seen
trekking through the mountain sometimes
around 800 people at a time during a
short period makes rush hour traffic on
the freeway look a little more of
now doesn't it once you hit Camp three
on your excursion you'll need to start
wearing an oxygen mask as the air
becomes incredibly thin while it is
possible to rough it and climb without
bottled oxygen it's considered pretty
dangerous don't think the mask matches
your trendy climbing outfit no need to
look like a tough guy there's no shame
in needing to breathe better to be safe
than sorry right once you reach the
summit you're looking at 29,029 feet
above sea level
pretty well at this point of the
mountain people can enjoy this
incredible accomplishment and truly feel
like they're on top of the world but
just for a half an hour once that 30
minutes is up it's time to climb back
down
did I make all that sound really easy
trust me it's not people who plan this
trip spend thousands of dollars and
sometimes train for years getting the
climbing and stamina ready for a trek
like this even if you don't have a lot
of experience climbing would you ever
attempt to climb Everest tell us if you
think the work and money is worth the
trip in the comments down below and
don't forget to give us a like and share
this video with your friends and
challenge them to a climb subscribe to
our channel for more awesome videos and
as always stay on the bright side of
life